So remember, I kind of alluded to the fact
that it's all about managing your
dependencies, right?
And what I meant by this is
that if you go to our API,
this fetch call right here is really
reaching out to an external world.
And therefore,
we are dependent on the external world and
there's a couple of problems with it.
First of all, it is going to be slow.
Second of all, it could be expensive.
So for example,
imagine you are trying to write
software to process
credit card information.
You don't actually wanna make real
charges as part of your test, right?
Even if you are charging 0.01 cent,
if you run the test thousands
of times it can add up.
So you need to mark your
external dependencies.
And so what testing is really about is,
how do I reach
through to the other side of
the unit that I'm testing and
be able to insert friendlies
on the other side.
I don't know what you wanna call it.
Basically insert something on the other
side of this test that is my collaborator,
that can basically sandwich
the code that I'm interested in.
On one side, it is my test applying
stimulus on one side of the of the unit.
And on the other side of the unit is
my friendly collaborator that is gonna
pretend to do stuff so that I can
sandwich the unit test in the middle and
assert what I want about how
the stuff works in the middle.
Does that make sense?
>> Why do you pass expect
that in the argument of them?
>> Why is the expect passed in here?
You can import it over here as well.
But it turns out when you have
an asynchronous test such as here And
you want to run tests concurrently,
then it would not be possible for
the Vite to know the expect
with which test it goes.
If you run the test one after the other,
it's not a problem.
But at some point,
you probably wanna do concurrent testing.
And once you do concurrent testing and
you call expect and
let's say this expect is
doing to match snapshot.
How in the world is supposed to know which
test are you matching against, right?
And so a better way of doing it is
to pass expect in through here and
this expect is permanently tied.
It's the same exact syntax,
but it's permanently tied to
this particular test run.
>> I see, it is snapshot here,
how is it generated?
>> So the first time you run, the
snapshot, see there's a snapshot folder.
So here, let's go back here.
There's my test, and right next to
the test, there's a snapshots folder and
inside of the folder, there's a file
name with the same exact thing.
And the first time I ran it,
it generated the snapshot, right?
So for example, if I go here and
I say false and
I rerun my spec, now it's going to fail.
And it basically says like,
hey, the snapshot is different.
So one thing you could do is, at the
beginning, we don't have a snapshot, so
I'm just gonna delete the snapshot.
The first time I run the test, it goes and
it creates the snapshot, right?
So that's how snapshotting works.
Snapshotting can be useful, but as I said,
it's a thing that people naturally
think of as the first thing to do, but
it's extremely problematic for
all the reasons that we mentioned.
So the thing to mock out or collaborate
is we need to get a control of the fetch.
And as it stands right now, there is no
way for us to get a control of the fetch.
I mean, we could monkey patch the global
fetch and do all kinds of crazy things.
Not the best way to do it, right?
So what we wanna do is we wanna
change this particular thing.
And this is where the magic
of testing comes in, right?
The magic of testing is how do I design
my code in such a way to make it
testable, right?
It's not about the tools,
it's not about knowing stuff about test,
it's about designing your
code in a friendly way.
So the way you would do that
is you would start with like,
let's say we wanted to mark fetch,
is a new fetch, and you say VI.
Sorry, vi.function.
We have to import it and
then we take this mock and
we're gonna fill the details later and
we're gonna pass it to the GitHub API.
So when I go to the GitHub API,
we now need to get a hold of the fetch.
So the type of it would be fetch and
we can just add private keyword
in front of it to save it.
It doesn't know what fetches, so
we're just gonna say that
fetch is export fetch,
is a type of fetch, type.
And so now we control the outside of
the fetch and we come in here where
we're doing a normal fetch and we're
gonna go and fetch using the R fetch.
The API is the same,
everything looks the same, but
now inside of our test we get
to control this function.
Now if you wanted to add
type information to it.
So this function will have the parameters
of fetch, a return type of fetch.
Fetch has to be imported in here.
So now we have a mock that
represents a code that we send out.
Now, if you look at the test,
the test fails because the mock
doesn't know what to respond with.
So if we look at our API, oops,
that's not what I want, right here.
If you look at our API, we call the fetch
and the fetch is supposed to return
a response and on this response we
wanna be able to call the JSON, right?
And so how do I do that?
So we need to train our mock so that it
knows how to respond because currently
the mock doesn't know how to respond.
And because the fetch is asynchronous and
returns a promise,
a good way to train this is to be
able to do a mock promise in here.
So if we had a function that
would masquerade as a promise
that we can control, then we could easily
write these tests inside of our mock.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
try to create this mocking function.
Wow, function, okay.
So what we'll try to do is
we're gonna create a promise,
which is going to be a new promise.
And promises get resolve and
reject and we will save them.
So we're gonna say we're gonna have,
sorry.
Let resolve is a function that,
so that's gonna
be a Promise of T, and
it's gonna take T, resolve.
We're gonna have a reject.
Now we're gonna assign it.
Resolve is resolve, reject is reject.
And now we're gonna return a promise.
But we need to assign those in there.
So we need to do that and
we need to do that.
And now it's gonna be a Promise of T, but
we also going to have
additional things on it and
these additional things are,
we go like that.
Sorry, we need to have an exclamation,
trust me we're doing this
in the correct order.
So now we have a mock, right?
And so
our fetch mock will return a promise, but
we don't know how to resolve
this particular promise.
And this is the reason why our
test is timing out, right?
Because the test is trying to do the next
step of fetching from the output,
but we can't do it because we
haven't told it what to do.
So let's train our mock a little bit.
So once we have a fetch, what we
want it to do is we want to assert,
so I wanna say expect that
the fetch mock to have
been called with a particular
parameters here.
So it is something like that.
We're saying,
we expect these headers and this output.
Sorry, we have the wrong order.
We need to call it first.
Sorry, we need to call it and
then we assert that we got
called with this argument.
And the test is still timing out.
But this is not right.
Wait, this is not doing the correct thing.
The correct way of calling it is that
the URL is the first argument and
then the headers is the second argument,
right?
So we need to flip this around.
We have to say that we're calling
it with this argument and
then headers are like this.
Once we assert that we got
called in the right way.
What we can do now is we can
resolve the expectations.
So we can take the fetch mock,
and we can say,
the first thing that you returned,
this was a promise, right?
And now we can resolve this
promise with the actual response.
And our response is going to be
something that has a weight,
so async JSON, which returns.
And let's just return some string.
Sure, response is good, response.
What is it?
Not liking, wrong number of parameters.
This is a common problem
that obviously even myself,
who've done this before, has stepped into.
We are now awaiting, and
the problem is that the await is in
front of us having a response, right?
So we need to get rid of this await,
and this is response promise now,
and then we respond and then we expect
that if we await the response promise,
then it is equal to response.
And now, it's passing,
but expected R in JSON.
Because this is not a JSON
[LAUGH] There we go.
So let's go over all of this stuff
because there was a lot here.
Let me see if I can fit
the whole thing on the page.
So we created a mocking function,
a helper.
We were able to pass it
to the GitHub API so
that we sandwich the GitHub API
on one side by us,
the test runner, and
on the other side by the mock.
We then go and say we wanna do
a request for this particular URL and
we assert that the URL
correctly got built up.
A couple of assertions we for
example are doing here is,
we're coming up with a username and
a specific repository, and
then we're verifying that
the correct URL got built.
We're also verifying that
the correct headers got built up.
And then we go and we create
a bogus response, a mock response.
Notice, we don't have to pretend
to have the full JSON, right?
We're just saying this is the response and
then we are expecting that
the response actually comes over here.
And so now this test is
completely isolated, right?
We no longer have to worry whether
the fetch service actually works or not,
and so on.
Now, it might be useful to
make the test more readable.
So instead of passing in like I'm heavily,
how about we pass in username and
repository, right?
And then we know that
we need to update that.
And this one over here.
And notice, it makes it easier for
person reading it to kind of recognize,
I see this string ends up here and
that string ends up there.
And I see that there's
a particular response.
Now, the other thing we could do is
instead of just passing a token,
we can actually say token here and
now our test is failing because we
have an additional argument here,
see authorization.
This thing gets added to the response.
So now we made a more complete
test because we can verify that
the correct token gets
passed into the system.
We can verify that
the fetch is happening and
we can fully control
the responses of all the pieces.
Make sense?